docs/en_US/NAS/NasGuide.md, before:

# One-shot NAS algorithms

Besides [classic NAS algorithms](./ClassicNas.md), users also apply more advanced one-shot NAS algorithms to find better models from a search space. There are lots of related works about one-shot NAS algorithms, such as [SMASH][8], [ENAS][2], [DARTS][1], [FBNet][3], [ProxylessNAS][4], [SPOS][5], [Single-Path NAS][6],  [Understanding One-shot][7] and [GDAS][9]. One-shot NAS algorithms usually build a supernet containing every candidate in the search space as its subnetwork, and in each step, a subnetwork or combination of several subnetworks is trained.

Currently, several one-shot NAS methods are supported on NNI. For example, `DartsTrainer`, which uses SGD to train architecture weights and model weights iteratively, and `ENASTrainer`, which [uses a controller to train the model][2]. New and more efficient NAS trainers keep emerging in research community and some will be implemented in future releases of NNI.

## Search with One-shot NAS Algorithms

Each one-shot NAS algorithm implements a trainer, for which users can find usage details in the description of each algorithm. Here is a simple example, demonstrating how users can use `EnasTrainer`.

```python
# this is exactly same as traditional model training
model = Net()
dataset_train = CIFAR10(root="./data", train=True, download=True, transform=train_transform)
dataset_valid = CIFAR10(root="./data", train=False, download=True, transform=valid_transform)
criterion = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
optimizer = torch.optim.SGD(model.parameters(), 0.05, momentum=0.9, weight_decay=1.0E-4)

# use NAS here
def top1_accuracy(output, target):
    # this is the function that computes the reward, as required by ENAS algorithm
    batch_size = target.size(0)
    _, predicted = torch.max(output.data, 1)
    return (predicted == target).sum().item() / batch_size

def metrics_fn(output, target):
    # metrics function receives output and target and computes a dict of metrics
    return {"acc1": top1_accuracy(output, target)}

from nni.nas.pytorch import enas
trainer = enas.EnasTrainer(model,
                           loss=criterion,
                           metrics=metrics_fn,
                           reward_function=top1_accuracy,
                           optimizer=optimizer,
                           batch_size=128
                           num_epochs=10,  # 10 epochs
                           dataset_train=dataset_train,
                           dataset_valid=dataset_valid,
                           log_frequency=10)  # print log every 10 steps
trainer.train()  # training
trainer.export(file="model_dir/final_architecture.json")  # export the final architecture to file
```

`model` is the one with [user defined search space](./WriteSearchSpace.md). Then users should prepare training data and model evaluation metrics. To search from the defined search space, a one-shot algorithm is instantiated, called trainer (e.g., EnasTrainer). The trainer exposes a few arguments that you can customize. For example, the loss function, the metrics function, the optimizer, and the datasets. These should satisfy most usage requirements and we do our best to make sure our built-in trainers work on as many models, tasks, and datasets as possible.

**Note that** when using one-shot NAS algorithms, there is no need to start an NNI experiment. Users can directly run this Python script (i.e., `train.py`) through `python3 train.py` without `nnictl`. After training, users can export the best one of the found models through `trainer.export()`.

Each trainer in NNI has its targeted scenario and usage. Some trainers have the assumption that the task is a classification task; some trainers might have a different definition of "epoch" (e.g., an ENAS epoch = some child steps + some controller steps). Most trainers do not have support for distributed training: they won't wrap your model with `DataParallel` or `DistributedDataParallel` to do that. So after a few tryouts, if you want to actually use the trainers on your very customized applications, you might need to [customize your trainer](./Advanced.md#extend-the-ability-of-one-shot-trainers).

Furthermore, one-shot NAS can be visualized with our NAS UI. [See more details.](./Visualization.md)

### Retrain with Exported Architecture

After the search phase, it's time to train the found architecture. Unlike many open-source NAS algorithms who write a whole new model specifically for retraining. We found that the search model and retraining model are usually very similar, and therefore you can construct your final model with the exact same model code. For example

```python
model = Net()
apply_fixed_architecture(model, "model_dir/final_architecture.json")
```

The JSON is simply a mapping from mutable keys to choices. Choices can be expressed in:

* A string: select the candidate with corresponding name.
* A number: select the candidate with corresponding index.
* A list of string: select the candidates with corresponding names.
* A list of number: select the candidates with corresponding indices.
* A list of boolean values: a multi-hot array.

For example,

```json
{
    "LayerChoice1": "conv5x5",
    "LayerChoice2": 6,
    "InputChoice3": ["layer1", "layer3"],
    "InputChoice4": [1, 2],
    "InputChoice5": [false, true, false, false, true]
}
```

After applying, the model is then fixed and ready for final training. The model works as a single model, and unused parameters and modules are pruned.

Also, refer to [DARTS](./DARTS.md) for code exemplifying retraining.

[1]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1808.05377
[2]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.03268
[3]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.03443
[4]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.00332
[5]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00420
[6]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.02877
[7]: http://proceedings.mlr.press/v80/bender18a
[8]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.05344
[9]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.04465

Commit message:

Update the docs for exported format in NAS

docs/en_US/NAS/NasGuide.md, after:

# One-shot NAS algorithms

Besides [classic NAS algorithms](./ClassicNas.md), users also apply more advanced one-shot NAS algorithms to find better models from a search space. There are lots of related works about one-shot NAS algorithms, such as [SMASH][8], [ENAS][2], [DARTS][1], [FBNet][3], [ProxylessNAS][4], [SPOS][5], [Single-Path NAS][6],  [Understanding One-shot][7] and [GDAS][9]. One-shot NAS algorithms usually build a supernet containing every candidate in the search space as its subnetwork, and in each step, a subnetwork or combination of several subnetworks is trained.

Currently, several one-shot NAS methods are supported on NNI. For example, `DartsTrainer`, which uses SGD to train architecture weights and model weights iteratively, and `ENASTrainer`, which [uses a controller to train the model][2]. New and more efficient NAS trainers keep emerging in research community and some will be implemented in future releases of NNI.

## Search with One-shot NAS Algorithms

Each one-shot NAS algorithm implements a trainer, for which users can find usage details in the description of each algorithm. Here is a simple example, demonstrating how users can use `EnasTrainer`.

```python
# this is exactly same as traditional model training
model = Net()
dataset_train = CIFAR10(root="./data", train=True, download=True, transform=train_transform)
dataset_valid = CIFAR10(root="./data", train=False, download=True, transform=valid_transform)
criterion = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
optimizer = torch.optim.SGD(model.parameters(), 0.05, momentum=0.9, weight_decay=1.0E-4)

# use NAS here
def top1_accuracy(output, target):
    # this is the function that computes the reward, as required by ENAS algorithm
    batch_size = target.size(0)
    _, predicted = torch.max(output.data, 1)
    return (predicted == target).sum().item() / batch_size

def metrics_fn(output, target):
    # metrics function receives output and target and computes a dict of metrics
    return {"acc1": top1_accuracy(output, target)}

from nni.nas.pytorch import enas
trainer = enas.EnasTrainer(model,
                           loss=criterion,
                           metrics=metrics_fn,
                           reward_function=top1_accuracy,
                           optimizer=optimizer,
                           batch_size=128
                           num_epochs=10,  # 10 epochs
                           dataset_train=dataset_train,
                           dataset_valid=dataset_valid,
                           log_frequency=10)  # print log every 10 steps
trainer.train()  # training
trainer.export(file="model_dir/final_architecture.json")  # export the final architecture to file
```

`model` is the one with [user defined search space](./WriteSearchSpace.md). Then users should prepare training data and model evaluation metrics. To search from the defined search space, a one-shot algorithm is instantiated, called trainer (e.g., EnasTrainer). The trainer exposes a few arguments that you can customize. For example, the loss function, the metrics function, the optimizer, and the datasets. These should satisfy most usage requirements and we do our best to make sure our built-in trainers work on as many models, tasks, and datasets as possible.

**Note that** when using one-shot NAS algorithms, there is no need to start an NNI experiment. Users can directly run this Python script (i.e., `train.py`) through `python3 train.py` without `nnictl`. After training, users can export the best one of the found models through `trainer.export()`.

Each trainer in NNI has its targeted scenario and usage. Some trainers have the assumption that the task is a classification task; some trainers might have a different definition of "epoch" (e.g., an ENAS epoch = some child steps + some controller steps). Most trainers do not have support for distributed training: they won't wrap your model with `DataParallel` or `DistributedDataParallel` to do that. So after a few tryouts, if you want to actually use the trainers on your very customized applications, you might need to [customize your trainer](./Advanced.md#extend-the-ability-of-one-shot-trainers).

Furthermore, one-shot NAS can be visualized with our NAS UI. [See more details.](./Visualization.md)

## Retrain with Exported Architecture

### Exported Architecture Format

After the search phase, it's time to train the found architecture.  The exported architecture from the search phase is simply a JSON, which can be used for fully training. The JSON is simply a mapping from mutable keys to choices. Choices can be expressed in:

* A string: select the candidate with corresponding name. If no names have been specified, this is not applicable.
* A number: select the candidate with corresponding index. The index starts from 0, and refers to which one in the candidate list has been chosen.
* A list of string: select the candidates with corresponding names.
* A list of number: select the candidates with corresponding indices.
* A list of boolean values: a multi-hot array.

For example,

```json
{
    "LayerChoice1": "conv5x5",
    "LayerChoice2": 6,
    "InputChoice3": ["layer1", "layer3"],
    "InputChoice4": [1, 2],
    "InputChoice5": [false, true, false, false, true]
}
```

### Reusing Code for Search and Retrain

Unlike many open-source NAS algorithms who write a whole new model specifically for retraining, we found that the search model and retraining model are usually very similar, and therefore you can construct your final model with the exact same model code. For example,

```python
model = Net()
apply_fixed_architecture(model, "model_dir/final_architecture.json")
```

After applying, the model is then fixed and ready for final training. The model works as a single model, and unused parameters and modules are pruned.

Also, refer to [DARTS](./DARTS.md) for code exemplifying retraining.

[1]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1808.05377
[2]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.03268
[3]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.03443
[4]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.00332
[5]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.00420
[6]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.02877
[7]: http://proceedings.mlr.press/v80/bender18a
[8]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.05344
[9]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.04465
